Just this year, more than 100,000 tech
workers worldwide have been laid off
across companies like Amazon, Intel,
Microsoft, Meta, IBM, and Salesforce.
Amazon alone cut 14,000 corporate roles.
Clariner reduced its staff by nearly 40%
as it leaned into guess what? AI.
Dualingo is phasing out human
contractors in favor of automation. And
this isn't limited to tech. In the UK,
one in six employers now expect AI to
reduce their workforce in the next year
with junior roles hit first. AI
political turbulence, economic pressure.
Together, they've created what some
people are already calling apocalypse.
And here's the paradox. Companies
publicly say, "If we don't adopt AI, we
won't exist in 15 years." And at the
same time, they're hiring fewer juniors
than ever. It really feels to me like
this first step of the career ladder is
cracking. And if that first step is
gone, what does that mean for the future
work and for the careers of recent
graduates? On my podcast, Silicon Valley
Girl, I talk to CEOs, investors and
founders who are actually hiring people
and who are building the AI tools
everyone is so anxious about. And you
know, I'm a mom. I have a six-year-old
and a four-year-old. I used to worry
about my career. Now I'm worried about
my daughter's future because it's so
unpredictable. And that's one of the
reasons why I do the podcast because I
want to hear from those people. I want
to ask my questions as a moment as an
immigrant. And in this video, I want to
bring their insights together and show
you which jobs are actually at risk,
which careers will grow because of AI,
and what you can do right now to make
your career as AI proof as possible.
Let's start with what's really happening
to jobs today. When I talk to founders
and CEOs, they all say the same thing.
In five years, we will most likely have
AGI and there will be massive
unemployment. For decades, the life
formula was simple. Go to school, get a
degree, get a job. Now, the formula is
breaking. Education prices keep going
up. But graduate job openings in some
countries are down by 40%. So, if the
job market feels like a closed door,
it's not because you're doing something
wrong. The system is preparing people
for a world that does not exist anymore.
And here's how Daniel Priestley, a
British entrepreneur and founder,
describes this gap.
>> It's both. It's the easiest and the
worst time. So is there's more money
than ever before. There's more
opportunities than ever before. You can
reach global markets faster than ever
before. So in theory, it should be the
easiest time. The reason it's not the
easiest time is because our schooling
system is rooted in the industrial age
and it's built around getting people
ready for factories and offices that no
longer exist really. So the the reason
that so many people are struggling is
because they went through this arduous
training day after day after day for 12
15 years preparing them for an
industrialized economy. And when they
get out there all of these skills make
them very functional. But now we have
automation and outsourcing.
>> Yeah. And it's like great, we trained
you as a large language model that's not
as good as the the current version.
>> Yeah.
>> Teaching people to do functional work
that can be automated or outsourced way
faster, way cheaper, way easier.
Especially in the west, you are not only
in competition with the technology,
you're also in competition with someone
who's armed with the same technology in
a country where you can live pretty
large on half the price.
>> Yeah. So the question isn't do I have a
degree anymore? The real questions are,
can I solve ambitious problems end to
end employing those AI tools? Can AI
actually 10x my output? Can I do
something beyond what a model and a
cheaper freelancer could do together?
And that leads us to the next part.
Which jobs are actually in danger and
why? When people ask which jobs will AI
replace, they expect to hear coders,
designers, maybe copyriters. But the
reality is more nuanced and in some ways
more scary. So I asked perplexity to
analyze my portfolio.
>> Okay.
>> And I asked it whether I should fire my
financial advisor and it was like yes
you should do this immediately. Like
that that's the first time I saw
something
>> that definitive from AI like what's
going to happen to these professions
financial advisors real estate brokers
>> because perplexity does it now and it
created the whole strategy for me to
rebalance and everything. getting the
listings on like Redin or Zillow with
like a comet like browser or say you
just have a recurring task that's
running doesn't work yet but it's going
to work pretty soon which is you could
just have a task that says you know
everyday morning just look at all the
new listings on Red Fin uh have
something like every time there's a
house below a certain budget uh and and
that's within this neighborhood make
sure to like send me a push notification
uh and and submit an application on my
behalf and schedule a meeting for a
visit. you have access to my calendar,
everything you can you can.
>> So, just take
>> So, if your agent only shows you
listings on Redin and Zillow, I I think
they're useless. But if your agent is
doing offmarket deals for you, they're
still pretty useful because those things
do not exist on the web.
>> Okay.
>> I feel like having the power of like
intelligence and computer at your hands,
it always comes back to that means you
can push uh the existing industry to
like like work harder for you. Uh same
thing with private wealth management or
financial advisors like what are if the
job of the financial advisor to tell you
like what stocks to buy then I don't
think they're not going to be smarter
than perplexity which you can go and
summon and and ask it to go read all the
uh analyst reports in every stock and
like all the morning day news and like
come back to you and tell you like the
impact on your portfolio. Uh what would
Warren Buffett do if he had exact
exactly your portfolio? like like it can
answer questions like that that no
financial advisor can.
>> But if your financial advisor does more
stuff for you like getting you some
access to uh certain funds like private
equity or hedge funds or or access to
like funds or citadel or like some
startups, venture capital which you
cannot get through uh just the public
markets then maybe they're useful,
right?
>> Clear pattern shows up. AI is not
killing entire professions. It's killing
the shallow version of those
professions. A lawyer who just rewrites
templates, that's easy to automate. A
financial adviser who just picks a few
mutual funds from a list, also easy to
replace. Um, you can already do that
with perplexity. A real estate agent who
only sends you Zillow links, you don't
need a human for that. But a lawyer who
negotiates, strategizes, and builds deep
trust with clients, very valuable. An
adviser who gets you into deals you
can't Google. Oh my god. Yes, please. An
agent who finds offmarket properties and
navigates messy human situations. Oh my
god. Yes, I've been through that. I
relied on my person. I just talked to
someone who runs a nonprofit helping
students from low-income families apply
to colleges. And she actually sees how
AI is helping them because because prior
to AI, one tutor could only help a few
students. Now one tutor is helping
hundreds of students and because AI can
answer a lot of generic questions and
she highlighted that they still need
humans there to motivate people. And
this is why uh students from those
low-income families come to her
nonprofit because they need that
support. They need a human to tell them
you can do it. You're worth it. You can
apply to that college. And it was super
important to me when I was applying to
colleges when somebody from Education
USA told me you can do it. And yes, I
could Google a lot of things myself, but
I can't Google motivation. What I'm
saying here is that AI isn't replacing
law or finance or real estate as fields.
It is replacing job descriptions that
are too basic. And that's exactly why so
many people decide to build their own
thing instead of fighting for one of
those shrinking roles. Before we go
deeper, I want to pause here for a
moment. Whenever I talk to founders or
creators, one thing keeps coming up. As
AI reshapes the job market, more people
are choosing to build their own thing.
startup service, a personal brand, and
even in an AI world where a search is
completely different now, you still need
a place where your work lives, a website
or a page that shows what you do and one
that both your customers and their AIs
can actually find. Oh my god, I can't
believe I've been saying that. But yes,
AI is now making a lot of purchasing
decisions. And the challenge is if you
ever try to register good.com, you know
the struggle. Most great names are
already taken or cost a fortune. That's
why I was really excited when I found
aonline domains. It's the world's second
largest new domain extension trusted by
over 3.5 million businesses and online
is such a strong keyword. It's searched
more than 500 million times every month
which actually helps you grow site rank
higher. What I love about online is how
universal it is. It works for
freelancers, creators, AI startups,
anyone who needs a clean professional
digital home. Even platforms like Skill
Up use it. And one of my favorite
examples, the classic Mindeeper, the
game a lot of you guys spend hours
playing, now lives at
mindepeeper.online.
And because.com is so crowded, doonline
gives you room to get the name you
actually want without weird numbers or
dashes. So if you're building an AI
product, launching a side project, or
finally creating your own portfolio, now
is the perfect moment to grab your
domain. And for a limited time, you can
get a online domain for just 99 cents
for the first year with my link and
coupon code. Just go to www.get.online
or use the code from the description and
secure your name today. So, let's look
at the job loss problem at a different
angle. Let's say you already have a
pretty good job and you like it and it's
interesting. You're inside the company.
You see all these changes and you're
thinking, "Okay, how do I not get
replaced by the next wave of tools?" I
asked my guests what they're doing with
their own teams right now. there's still
higher value work to do.
>> So, they're still in the companies.
>> They're still in the companies and
there's still work to be done. Like
everything's elevating, but what we
discovered is that there's this there's
this ability to pull the scalable
element out and address a market that
was never even being addressed.
>> So, it's not like you're replacing
people, it's more of you're elevating
them.
>> There's definitely an element of
replacing people. Um, and that is
because there are always these jobs that
are repetitive, functional, annoying,
frustrating jobs that we can actually
replace. There are some people who say,
"I don't want to elevate up." And
unfortunately, there's not much I can do
if you don't want to elevate. If you
don't want to play at the higher game,
I'm moving fast. So, you've got to
either elevate towards that or find
something else.
>> Yeah, this is basically the new contract
at work. AI takes the boring repeatable
tasks. human move up to higher value
problems. If you refuse to move up, you
eventually move out. And big tech CEOs
are thinking the exact same way.
>> We see big companies put a stop on
hiring and they say like, "Hey, to their
employees, you need to figure out how to
do this with AI first before we hire
someone." What do you think about that?
I think it's a reflection of you know a
fast changing market and a lot of
uncertainty uh both you know in the
political uh uh environment and in the
tech environment of where things are
going and the natural tendency to do is
to go slower a little bit. Um, and you
may might decide, you know, some people
are no longer the right folks in my
company for that kind of environment
where things are moving incredibly fast,
where you're almost forced to use AI to
keep up with the competition. Like the
realization I think that many companies
had in the last few months is that if we
have employees that say we don't want to
use AI, that ultimately means up we as a
company are no longer set up for success
because our competitors are all using AI
or they're mandating AI. And I think
this is the transition phase we're going
through. You know, things like Mark
Zuckerberg uh getting the scale scale AI
team.
I I think that shows where Mark's head
is and where he believes the future is
going to be. He's going he's willing to
invest into it.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So, if you already have a
job, your number one goal is very
simple. Become the person who knows how
to do your job with AI, not in spite of
it. And if you're a manager and you're
watching this, another meaningful thing
I took away from a conversation with
this lady who runs this nonprofit
helping students apply to colleges. And
when she was introducing this AI tool,
she was talking to her team, she told
them to focus on the problem that
they're solving with this tool because
that tool allowed her team to spend
their limited amount of time on actually
encouraging students to apply and
motivating them versus answering generic
questions. So in order to become a
person who knows how to do their job
with AI, you can start with really easy
practical exercise. Ask yourself what
are the three most repetitive things I
do every week? Is it writing emails,
making reports, doing research, cleaning
data? Then build a tiny AI system around
each one. This can be prompts, small
automations, agents, very basic,
anything that saves time. I really like
spaces and perplexity. feel like I have
a space for my high cholesterol. I have
a space for guests that I'm researching.
And then you just notice how you save 30
to 50% of your time on that repetitive
stuff. I don't type my emails anymore. I
just talk to chat GPT and it writes my
emails. So keep asking myself, what
higher level work can I move to? Where
is this highest ROI? Where should I
invest more time in? And where should I
delegate to AI? That's how you move from
replaceable task doer to irreplaceable
operator. That brings us to one of my
favorite questions. My daughters are
four and six and I always ask
entrepreneurs, what skills should our
kids learn for this new world? And
honestly, the answer is very similar for
them and for us. Generally speaking, AI
don't suggest waiting because part of
what you want to be doing, you know,
just like any new technological
revolution, whether when YouTube was
happening, when the internet's
happening, the folks who go and adopt
and play with it early then have a
differential edge in the change that it
means in the industry, in their society.
And so even though three years from now
the coding tools will be and agents will
be much better than they are now the
people who started playing with them now
will probably be the people who know how
to use them and deploy them much more
comfortably early.
>> So what do you think uh parents should
be teaching their kids now? I think it's
still important to be good at like
learning knowledge from first principles
yourself and not depending on the sort
of AI tutor leading you through. Like I
think one of the most important things
is from school is the discipline of
being able to teach yourself. That's a
meta skill
>> and that you know that that comes with
friction. So I think as a parent you
still have to introduce like discipline
and friction into the process because if
it comes all too slowly and it's always
on tap you know then the then there's a
risk that the child could just get used
to having everything instantly available
and doesn't learn from the hard work um
you know the benefits of hard work which
I think are important. So that's like
something to think through now that
everything is going to be so seamless.
Then I asked the founder of Replet,
Amjad, what he's teaching his own kids
because he's an immigrant and his kids
are the same age as mine.
>> When I'm thinking about my kids and what
we're going to do in the future, I think
about this idea of being more of a
polymath, right? Like if you think
about, you know, even before the
industrial revolution, the people that
are most memorable, uh, like Leonardo da
Vinci, for example, did a lot of things.
was an engineer, was an artist, was all
sorts of things, right? And the the kind
of elite education used to be about
understanding a lot of things about
spending a lot of time learning about
every everything. And I think this is
where the education needs to be headed
where the industrial revolution created
a world where humans are treated like
machines. If you think about
corporations or factories, factories are
one big machine and every individual
person kind of doing the assembly of one
thing is a part and I think it was very
dehumanizing and I think we're going to
go back to a to a moment of time uh
where there's a lot more opportunities
for entrepreneurship. Even when you join
a company, you're you're going to be
judged by how much of a real business
impact you're going to have as opposed
to how task oriented you are.
>> The new AI age wants you to be what
researchers call a human epoch. Someone
who brings the five abilities AI still
can't replicate. Empathy, presence,
opinion or ethics, creativity, and hope
slash leadership. And these aren't soft
skills anymore. Let me give you a simple
example. Two people can both use chat
GPT to write a report, but only one of
them can walk into a meeting and read
the room, understand why a client is
nervous, understand what could be a
hesitation, reframe the problem when the
model's answer isn't enough, make a
judgment call when the data conflicts,
inspire the team to move forward. That
combination, human psychology plus AI
fluency is what companies are paying a
premium for. And then there is something
most people still underestimate.
Personal brand.
>> Personal brand is going to matter even
more, a lot more because personal brands
get 20 times the cut through as business
brands when you're trying to get
attention. But it's going to be nearly
impossible to build a personal brand.
Imagine a scenario where there's an
airport and there are planes that are on
the ground and there are planes that are
already up in the air and the fog comes
rolling in and the air traffic control
says if you're already on the ground
it's too foggy you can't take off but if
you're up in the air you can keep
flying. That's what's going to happen to
personal brands. So new personal brands
are going to be harder and harder to get
through the fog. Existing personal
brands will be already up in the air. I
think there's probably two to three
years where you've still got time to
build a personal brand. I think one of
the greatest assets anyone can build
right now is a dedicated following of
two to 20,000 people who know who you
are. They they get you. Doesn't have to
be millions, but if there's 2 to 20,000
people out there on your LinkedIn, on
your Instagram, on your YouTube channel,
whatever it is, they feel like they've
met you or know you, they've got a
parasocial relationship to you. If
you've got two to 20,000 people out
there who have that parasocial
relationship with you, that is going to
be one heck of an asset to have.
>> In a world where AI can generate
infinite content, people follow people.
Your edge is a mix of AI fluency. You
know how to use tools better than 90% of
your peers. Polymath skills. You can
connect dots across fields and ship real
things. Personal brand. None of that
requires permission from a recruiter,
but it does require something
old-fashioned
learning. And no, we're not all about
retiring at 30, but how we work is
changing fast. Instagram co-founder Mike
Kger described it perfectly when he
talked about Claude and AI agents. What
do you think is going to happen in two
or three years? How we're going to
progress in advance? I think part of it
and I was having this conversation this
morning even with some of our our
researchers um the the progression or
the the dynamic that I see is um if last
year maybe the beginning of this year um
these models and I'll use Claude as the
example were really kind of uh
assistants that were helping you with
maybe a question at a time or maybe a
task right um this year they're moving
more into collaborators where um
especially if you watch somebody use um
cloud code for example they're actually
delegating what would have taken them
maybe 20, 30 minutes and Claude's going
off and doing it and then you're
checking in and you're more on the sort
of validating or verifying work, right?
Going into next year, you're going to
delegate even bigger chunks of time or
even like pieces of the job out to that.
So, it's not just I have this very
specific thing, please go do it. And it
could be more sort of think of it,
Claude, as something that's in the loop
of your business. So, hey Claude, um,
watch for any new user feedback and
maybe propose a change based on that.
And you can imagine evolving that. don't
just propose a change, write the code to
make the change and I'll check if it's a
good idea or not. Um, and then the next
step there is Claude actually being an
entire sort of co-orker where it has a
discipline. So, not just a project that
happens to be a good thought partner for
product management, but an actual
product manager in your company.
>> This for me is the blueprint of AI proof
careers. You work with models that see
patterns better than any human ever
could, and you bring the things that
absolutely can't. judgment, taste,
ethics, lived experience, emotional
support. In other words, you become the
translator between messy human reality
and superhuman AI systems. With all
these tools, it's natural to ask, do we
even need formal education? I asked
Perplexity CEO Aravent if he'd still do
a PhD today. And what hit tell an
18-year-old starting from scratch.
>> The fundamental thing you learn in a PhD
is learning to learn. Like I I did a lot
of research in my PhD which doesn't
matter today but I got the ability to
like go learn a new topic dig deep
understand everything gather my
information consult like whoever is the
best uh expert which by the way is not
needed anymore because you have tools
like perplexity subject expertise to go
make decisions and like you know branch
out that is what you acquire that skill
zoom out and think beyond materialistic
goals like just foundationally as a
person you become a lot more grounded in
like the the willingness to seek truth,
the relentless questioning, the socratic
method of learning uh and uh learning to
learn
>> uh and and and I feel like these three
qualities are like like reflective of
this proverb or phrase, right? Like give
a man a fish, you feed him for a day,
teach a man to fish, you feed him for a
lifetime. Like that's how I feel about
PhD. So, no, you do not need a PhD to
succeed in AI. But you do need the thing
a good education was always supposed to
give you. The ability to learn fast, the
ability to ask better questions, to go
deep when everyone else is just
skimming. AI makes it easier than ever
to access knowledge. It does not replace
your responsibility to actually use it.
So, let's put this all together. Yes,
entry-level jobs are disappearing. Yes,
simple repeatable work is becoming less
valuable even if it's intellectual. The
people actually building this future
keep saying the same thing. This is both
the hardest and the best time to build
your career. If you want to be on the
winning side of this shift, here's a
simple plan you can start this month.
Something real, something doable. Step
number one, learn to work with AI, not
around it. Write down the tasks you
repeat every week. Reports, re research,
emails, content, and keep iterating.
Don't stop there. Build AI workflows for
them using Chad GPT, Perplexity, Cloud.
Keep trying those new tools. Your goal
is to cut the time in half for just
three to five tasks in the next 30 days
and put it into your CV or LinkedIn.
Reduced X task by 50% using AI
workflows. That's a language hiring
managers understand. Step number two, go
deep in one area. Then expand. Pick a
field and commit to one full year of
uncomfortable depth. courses, side
projects, real work you can show. After
that, add an adjacent skill. A marketer
who codes, a doctor who understands AI,
a designer who knows data. That's how
you go from task doer to someone who
actually moves the business. And then
step number three, build a small but
real personal brand. We've hired some
people recently and most of them came
because my COO followed them on
LinkedIn. She liked their way of
thinking. She liked their experience.
She reached out on LinkedIn. We were not
chasing people with million followers,
just a couple thousand people who know
what you're good at. Post once or twice
a week about what you're learning,
building, and improving. Share
experiments, share case studies, and
numbers. Document the journey instead of
waiting to feel ready. So, to wrap this
up, the future work isn't humans versus
AI, it's humans plus AI. And the gap
between those who adapt and those who
don't is getting wider every month. If
you want me to break down specific AI
workflows for your job or industry, tell
me what you do in the comments. I might
make a whole video around it. And if
this helped you feel a little less
apocalypse and a little more okay, I
actually have a plan. Hit the like
button so that more people can see this
video. Your career is not over. It's
just in beta and you're the one shipping
the next version. Thank you so much and
I'll see you very soon on this channel.
Bye.